Please answer the below core-java Questions:


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans:- jdk- a software development tool which is composed of
Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (java),
a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc) and other tools
What is IDE?
Ans:-An integrated development environment (IDE)is a source code editor for software programers, and it also includes debugger.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans:- Eclipse, Intellij, NetBeans, sublime, ....
Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans:- We can use any text editor to create the high-level Java text file. This file is saved as a .java file on the disk.
We then compile this text file using the Java compiler, which result in a .class file being created on the disk.
The .class file contains the bytecodes. The file is then loaded into memory by the class loader.
The bytecode verifier confirms that the bytecodes are valid and not hostile.
Finally, the JVM reads the bytecodes in memory and translates them into machine code.
what is class?
Ans:- Class is a group of Objects that has common properties.
What is object?
Ans:- An Object is an instance of a class
What is the entry point of an application?
Ans:- main() Method is an entry point of an application
Why main is static?
Ans:- because it is called by the JVM before any objects are made
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans:-abstract class can extend only one class or one abstract class at a time,but interface can extend any number of interfaces at a time
abstract  class  can extend from a class or from an abstract class, but interface can extend only from an interface
A class can extend only one abstract class, but in interface a class can implement any number of interfaces
......
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans:-?????????????????????????????????????????????
what is Access Specifier?
Ans:- this are keywords in OO language that set the accecibility of a classes, methods and other members
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans:- OOP (Object Oreinted Programming):is a programming language model organized around objects rather than "actions" and data rather than logic
encapsulation:-is hiding data implementation by restricting access to accesors and mutators
Abstraction:- is the development of classes, objects,types interms of their interfaces and functionality.
inheritance:- is the process by which a class can be derived from a base class.
polymorphism:-is the ability to exist in various forms.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans:- API (Application program interface)set of rules and protocols that a programmer use for building software application
ArrayList, Strings, ...
Does java support multiple inheritance?
Ans:- No it does support multiple inheritance.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans:-Method overloading is a feature that allows a class to have two or more methods having the same name,if their argument are different
and it happens at compile time.
What is method overriding and when it happens?
Ans:-Method overriding is declaring a method in subclass which is already present in parent class and modify its behavior.
 and it happens at run time.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans:-An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program
exceptions are handled using the java keywords ExceptionsHandles or user defined exceptions
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans:-Static means that the variable or function is shared between all instances of that class.
If u declare a variable as static is value is the same across all instances of the class
If you declare a method as static, the methods are associated with the class itself
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans:-final is a java keyword,to define an entity that can only be assigned once.
if you declare a variable final you can not change the value of the variable .
If a method is declared as final; you can not override it.
What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans:-final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected
What is a constructor ?
Ans:- Constructor is a bit of code that used to create objects from  a class
What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans:- this is a java keyword worked as reference to the current object.
What is "super" keyword in java?
Ans:- super super() is used to invoke immediate parent class constructor or class method.
What is JVM stand for ?
Ans:- Java Virtual Machine
What version of java are you using?
Ans:- jdk1.8.0_101
What is JAR stand for ?
ANs:- Java Archive
What is compile time and run time?
Ans:- Compile time means the compilation process where the source code is changed to machine code.
Run time means;when an application is running after the compilation process
What is heap?
Ans:-A heap is a general term used for any memory that is allocated dynamically and randomly
How java manage it's memory?
Ans:-Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs.
When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans:-String is used to manipulate character strings that cannot be changed
StringBuffer/StringBuilder is used to represent characters that can be modified
StringBuffer and StringBuilder have the same methods with one difference and that's of synchronization.
StringBuffer is synchronized
